{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 #### Project creation form - M\'c3\'a9socentre Moulon ####\
\
# Note : to open a project send this form to ruche_support@groupes.renater.fr and your lab referee\
# The project will be opened when validated by your lab referee\
# (see http://mesocentre.centralesupelec.fr/lab-referee/)\
\
## Identity of the project referee\
firstname=Laurent\
lastname=\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Cabaret\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
email=Laurent.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Cabaret\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 @c\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 entralesupelec.fr\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
# group : name of the lab hosting the project if CS/ENS/UPsaclay, or\
# "teaching" for a training session,\
# "mdls" if Maison de la Simulation.\
group=misc\
\
## project\
project_shortname="<NLPhilosophy>"\
title=```\
---- NLPhilosophy: Fine-Tuned Morality ----\
```\
\
## Description of the project (scientific goals, planned usage of the mesocenter...)\
description=```\
---- \
The goal is to identify the morality of hundreds of international philosophers (from Confucius to Camus). We train a T5-11b model on RAINBOW and COMMONSENSE NORM BANK, then fine tune to the text of a philosopher/school of thought. We look at the similarity between philosophies (taoism/stoicism) and evaluate the respective model\'92s morality with widely-used benchmarks. \
We plan to use the mesocenter for its large computing power. Because the T5 model has 11 billion parameters, and the training/fine tuning corpus is dozens of gigabytes, it is infeasible to attempt this on anything smaller (e.g. Google Collab Pro+ or multi-thread parrallized accounts).\
We plan to use the mesocenter for 2-3 months, and occosianally run the full training during evenings (with heads-up) to avoid hindering other research projects\'92 progress. Of course, we are open to (and look forward to) communication about when to train our model(s) \
----\
```\
\
## Supports : if the project receives support (ANR, competitiveness cluster, European or other...), indicate the nature of this support as well as the duration and the amount.\
supports=```\
---- NaN ----\
```\
\
## Resources : Indicate the job profile targeted for this project (number of cores, memory per job, storage needed...), softwares/libraries necessary to execute the codes (example: FFTW, HDF5...).\
resources=```\
---- A requirements.txt file was sent to Guillaume Joslin at  guillaume.joslin@centralesupelec.fr \
We will need access to NVIDIA A100(s) as the model weights themselves are 42GB. \
We will need 200-400GB of CPU RAM to \'93offload\'94 onto. \
We will use the Adam optimizer, as it is relatively memory efficient. However, it will surely be a bottleneck, and until we are able to load/iterate the model it is difficult to estimate how much memory per job each training checkpoint will take. In their paper, Adam authors write there are two states for each weight matrix so the model may reach up to 1000GB in training. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We hope to mitigate data leakage, optimize GPU parallezation, and use Microsoft\'92s ZeRO-Offload methods from their Deepspeed library. Something similar has been implemented before and we hope to draw from their process.  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ----\
```\
}