{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\cname textColor;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Business Value. \
\
Now that we\'92ve seen how the defined problem was addressed and how our final output was created, lets interpret it from the perspective of the business. We have three main calculations to explore; Cost, CLV, and Profit. \
\
When looking at the cost columns in Figure X, we can see that sales costs (on average) accounts for 89,4% of the total costs of a segment, whereas marketing costs are 10,6%. To repeat, nearly 9/10ths of the budget goes towards the recruitment, acquision, and retention of practicioners. This is an important fact that we will return to later, but provides us with a good perspective to validate wheter or not this allocation of budget is something that the company intedended. \
\
The CLV calculations are described above, and the results can be explored very clearly in our detailed dashboard. However, we do want to highlight that across all specialties the 25th, 50th and 75th percentile CLV is 1433,37\'80, 1572,72\'80, 1661,38\'80 respectively. Additionally, we found that there was (on average) more variability within a city\'92s CLV than within a profession. Meaning, the average disparity between the highest grossing practicioner\'92s CLV within a city with another CLV of a different specialty in the same city (360,44\'80) is 
\f1\i higher
\f0\i0  than the disparity between the same specialty accross different cities (242,62\'80). This can help us see from a business perspective that specialty is more important than city when looking at CLV.  A specific case to notice is Radiologists, whom (on average) have a CLV of 3054,08\'80, a far outlier from the quartiles mentioned beforehad, and consistently high regardless of city as expected. \
\
Finally, when looking at Profit \'96\'a0that is subtracting Costs from CLV \'96 we see that some groups are highly profitable and some are deep in the red. This is better illustrated in the supplementary dashboard, but we want to call attention to a few groups. Looking first by regional distribution, we see that practicioners in \cf2 \'cele-de-France\cf0  and the Provence-Alpes-C\'f4te d'Azur earn the most profit (on average) whereas Corse and Centre-Val de Loire earn the least. By specialty, \cf2 Osteopaths have the highest profit margin and Anesthetists the least.\
\
Lets focus a little more on these segments whom have negative profit margins. To be specific, these are Anesthtists in Corse, Centre-Val de Loire, and Hauts-de-France and Radiologists in Grand Est and Bretagne. These segments hemeragge (on average) \cf0 -35,604,45 \'80 per month. This is particularly interesting, because as stated earlier, Radiologists have (on average) the highest CLV, yet their costs are also very high. This shows from a business perspective that CLV is not the end-all value to go by, seeing a segment in its contextual cost is a must. A simple recommendation here is to decrease or stop altogether targeting such segments and avoid deploying rougly 271,000\'80 in costs a year. However, if the cost allocation mentioned earlier was better managed (main costs here are sales costs), then these segments could be very profitable.\
\
Looking at the big picture, we can see in Figure X that the estimated profit of Doctolib in Feb 2022 is \cf2  170,029,873.69 \'80  (170M\'80). This may be a coincidence but we found it aligns exactly with a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://getlatka.com/companies/doctolib"}}{\fldrslt public report}} of Doctolib\'92s earnings. We then calculated the month-on-month compound annual growth rate (MoM CAGR) for each segment, and projecting the current practioner values into the future, we estimate Jan 2027 will reach 3,6B\'80. \cf0 \
\
\
Recommendations:\
- rethink cost allocation\
- target specialties over cities\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - stop engaging with non profitable segments\
}